# Comp-Graphics-and-Visualization
My portfolio for CS-330

# How do I approach designing software?
Software should be easily accessible for the user and also clearly readable for any future developers looking to maintain the program. I always make it a priority to maintain clean and organized code. I also try to program with expansion and maintenance in mind, making it so the code can be adjusted later without a huge headache. I separated a lot of my core processes into different functions and made sure to add ample comments to keep track of things.
I imagine that the majority of time with software is spent on bug fixes and upkeep in the working world. Organizing my code helps to keep track of things on my end, but will also prove useful to my coworkers in the future. I also used a lot of pre-defined variables as constants that helped streamline the programming process. It's a lot easier to understand a variable like "screenColor" than trying to decipher four magic numbers being sent to the shader programs.

# How do I approach developing programs?
My development involves a lot of iteration, trying things over and over to thoroughly bugfix my code and assure that it's working properly. In all honestly, I'm quite stubborn with it, and will often sit with a bugged program for hours and hopelessly slam my head into the keyboard until it gets working. The sheer length and size of this 3D rendering program helped me work on that problem, as there were days when I had to tell myself I did enough and bake on it until the next day.
Stubbornness aside this programming process was a great example of how my programming has evolved over the years. If only I had it now, it's sadly lost to time, but I made a tic-tack-toe app in high school. That thing took over a thousand lines of code! This program took about the same amount of lines, 1244, and I guarantee that number is bloated by the explanatory comments I've made a habit of writing. I believe this program, while not perfect, is one of my most deliberate pieces of programming to date. Everything is programmed with an intended purpose in the most efficient way I could figure out, bar a few adjustments for readability. Doing this 3D project has aided my mentality about programming large programs, as it has improved my judgment for what code is needed, my pacing and frustration management, and my overall code organization.

# How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
I love programming. Maybe that's too simple to say, but the end goal of my college career is that I can have a profession that I thoroughly enjoy. My mother always told me that if you love what you do, you won't work a day in your life. I keep that advice very close to my heart.
Sentimental reasons aside, Computer Graphics and Visualization class was a usage of programming that I had never explored before. OpenGL is a fascinating API with its unique libraries and syntax that took time to get used to but feel very rewarding to implement well. Learning how to interact with something brand-new is always beneficial, as it makes me a more adaptable and well-rounded programmer. Being able to quickly pick up and understand new languages and applications is a vital skill in the programming world, as technology changes rapidly and I'll need to keep up.
